README.md, before:

# Letter Match

_Javascript Essentials Project Portfolio - Code Institute_

View deployed site [here.](https://queenisabaer.github.io/letter-match/)

Letter Match is a game for kindergarten children. It's main goal is to 

![Responsive Mockup](documentation/readme/am-i-responsive.png)

## Table of contents

- [User Experience (UX)](#user-experience)
- [Design](#design)
- [Features](#features)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Credits](#credits)

## User Experience (UX)

### User stories

Goals for:

- **First time visitor:**

- **Returning visitor:**

- **Frequent user:**
  

## Design

- **Imagery:**
  xxx
- **Colour Scheme:**
  xxx<br>
  ![Color palette](documentation/readme)
- **Typography:**
  [Annie use your teleskope](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Annie+Use+Your+Telescope) was selected for text content. It's a cute font that is easy to read by children and yet has a certain lightness. 
  [Barlow Semi Condensed](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Barlow+Semi+Condensed) is an easy-to-read, clear font that is simple to grasp, so it was used for the instructions. 
  The font [Are you serious](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Are+You+Serious) was selected for the logo. It represents the fun and joy the game should bring. 
  > Are You Serious doesn't take itself seriously at all. This is a fun playful font with a very joyful spirit. _(Google Fonts)_

### Wireframes

<details>
<summary> Welcome page before game starts </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-mobile.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-desktop.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Instructions </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-mobile-instructions.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-desktop-instructions.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Game </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobile.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-desktop.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Correct answer </summary>
<br>
Unfortunately, due to lack of time, I did not manage to set the background colors correctly for wrong or correct answers.<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobil-correct.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-desktop-correct.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Wrong answer </summary>
<br>
During coding I decided to give the child another try to find the correct answer, so that he/she/they could improve his/her/their skill. Therefore, displaying the correct letter was no longer necessary.

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobil-wrong.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobil-wrong.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Game ending </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes)

</details>

## Features

### Existing Features

All the pages were created with a mobile first approach and are made responsive. To ensure that the layout of the pages remains consistent even on very large screens, the text body has been given a maximum width and a margin on both sides.  


### Features, which I would like to implement in the future

- 

## Technologies Used

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript) 
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) was used to import fonts into the style.css.
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) was used to add icons.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/) was used to save and store the files for the website.
- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) was used to design the wireframes.
- [Coloors](https://coolors.co/image-picker) was used to create the color scheme.
- [iLoveIMG](https://www.iloveimg.com/) was used to cropp and resize the images.
- [Pixelied](https://pixelied.com/) was used to convert images from jpg to webp
- [imgtools](https://www.imgtools.co/) was used to resize webp images
- [CSS Gradient](https://cssgradient.io/) was used to create the gradient background of the instruction button
- [Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive) was used to display the website on different devices.
- [beautifier](https://beautifier.io/) to beautify the code
- [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/de-de/) was used to search and load the background image

## Testing

1. **Validator Testing**

- **[HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)**

  - result for index.html<br>
    ![HTML results index with errors]()
   

I also checked all pages in the validator via text-input, and likewise no errors were detected in this way. All I got was an information to avoid trailing slashes in void elements.

- **[CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)**
   - result for styles.css <br>
     ![CSS result]()
     The warning is due to import of the Google fonts.

2. **Lighthouse Test** <br>
   To measure the website against performance, accessibility, SEO and best practice I used [Lighthouse](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk?hl=de).<br>
   
- result for index.html:<br>
  
  

3. **Manual testing** <br>
To ensure the pages are responsive, I used the Google Chrome developer tools.

| **Test** | **Test Description** | **Expected Outcome** | **Result**|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|


4. **Browser Compatibility**<br>
   The tests were conducted using the following browsers:

- 

5. **Bugs**

- 

## Deployment

This site is deployed using GitHub Pages. To deploy it from its GitHub repository to GitHub Pages, I took the following steps:
1. Log in (or sign up) to GitHub.
2. Navigate to the repository for this project by selecting [*queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard*](https://github.com/queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard)
3. Click the *Settings* tab above the repository 
4. In the left-hand menu, select *Pages*
5. In the section **"Build and deployment"** under *Source* select *Deploy from a branch* 
6. In the section **"Build and deployment"** under *Branch* select in the first area *main* and in the second *root*
7. Click the *Save* Button<br>
After refreshing the settings site for this repository above the **"Build and deployment"** section, you will see the GitHub Pages area with the link to the [view of the live site](https://queenisabaer.github.io/isbaner-vineyard/)

- Forking this GitHub repository
1.  Log in to GitHub.
2.  Navigate to the repository for this project by selecting [*queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard*](https://github.com/queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard)
3. Click at the top of the repository on the **Fork** button on the right side

- Clone this repository
1.  Log in to GitHub.
2.  Navigate to the repository for this project by selecting [*queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard*](https://github.com/queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard)
3. In the top right corner, click on the green *Code* button
4. Copy the HTTPS URL in the tab *Local*
5. Go to the code editor of your choice and open the terminal
5. Type `git clone` and paste the URL you copied into your terminal
6. Press the enter key

## Credits

### Content

- The background image is from Magda Ehlers and was found on the [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/de-de/foto/kunst-muster-textur-abstrakt-4116706/) website.

### Code

- The instructions modal was created with the help of the tutorial by [Viktor Eke from freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-build-a-modal-with-javascript/)
- To center the instructions modal I used an explanation from [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8508275/how-to-center-a-position-absolute-element).
- To create the countdown I used the instruction by [James McDowell on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31106189/create-a-simple-10-second-countdown)
- I found a great explanation for setting the restart button in the [Treehouse Community](https://teamtreehouse.com/community/any-one-know-how-to-make-a-restart-button)
- How to add and remove a class after a certain time, was found at [ITSourceCode.com] (https://itsourcecode.com/javascript-tutorial/how-to-add-and-remove-class-after-5-seconds-in-javascript/).
- The functions to check whether the right or wrong letter is clicked have been inspired by [CodingNepal] (https://www.codingnepalweb.com/build-memory-card-game-html-javascript/) among others. 
- To understand more about the concepts of JavaScript I used the udemy course: [The complete 2023 Web Development Bootcamp by Dr. Angela Yu](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-development-bootcamp/)
- The following websites were used as a source of knowledge: <br>
  - [Google](www.google.com)
  - [mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)
  - [W3C](https://www.w3.org/)
  - [W3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
  - [DevDocs](https://devdocs.io/)
  - [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
  - Slack Community

### Media

- Icons on the footer, the game and for links were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- The fonts were imported from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)

### ReadMe

- A big thank you to [Kera Cudmore](https://github.com/kera-cudmore) and all of her tips on what makes a good README.

### Acknowledgments

- I would like to thank my wonderful mentor Brian Macheria for his numerous tips and great assistance during the creation of this project.
- Furthermore I would like to thank Niclas Hugdahl who helped me on Slack to get the right twist for my name input function and setting the checkAnswer/correctAnswer function. 

**This is for educational use.**

Commit message:

Add green background to lettercard if answer was correct

README.md, after:

# Letter Match

_Javascript Essentials Project Portfolio - Code Institute_

View deployed site [here.](https://queenisabaer.github.io/letter-match/)

Letter Match is a game for kindergarten children. It's main goal is to 

![Responsive Mockup](documentation/readme/am-i-responsive.png)

## Table of contents

- [User Experience (UX)](#user-experience)
- [Design](#design)
- [Features](#features)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Credits](#credits)

## User Experience (UX)

### User stories

Goals for:

- **First time visitor:**

- **Returning visitor:**

- **Frequent user:**
  

## Design

- **Imagery:**
  xxx
- **Colour Scheme:**
  xxx<br>
  ![Color palette](documentation/readme)
- **Typography:**
  [Annie use your teleskope](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Annie+Use+Your+Telescope) was selected for text content. It's a cute font that is easy to read by children and yet has a certain lightness. 
  [Barlow Semi Condensed](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Barlow+Semi+Condensed) is an easy-to-read, clear font that is simple to grasp, so it was used for the instructions. 
  The font [Are you serious](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Are+You+Serious) was selected for the logo. It represents the fun and joy the game should bring. 
  > Are You Serious doesn't take itself seriously at all. This is a fun playful font with a very joyful spirit. _(Google Fonts)_

### Wireframes

<details>
<summary> Welcome page before game starts </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-mobile.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-desktop.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Instructions </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-mobile-instructions.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-start-desktop-instructions.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Game </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobile.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-desktop.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Correct answer </summary>
<br>
Unfortunately, due to lack of time, I did not manage to set the background colors correctly for wrong or correct answers.<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobil-correct.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-desktop-correct.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Wrong answer </summary>
<br>
During coding I decided to give the child another try to find the correct answer, so that he/she/they could improve his/her/their skill. Therefore, displaying the correct letter was no longer necessary.

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobil-wrong.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-game-mobil-wrong.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary> Game ending </summary>
<br>

![Mobile wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-end-mobile.png)
![Desktop wireframe](documentation/wireframes/letter-match-end-desktop.png)

</details>

## Features

### Existing Features

All the pages were created with a mobile first approach and are made responsive. To ensure that the layout of the pages remains consistent even on very large screens, the text body has been given a maximum width and a margin on both sides.  

### Features, which I would like to implement in the future

- I would like to create different levels of difficulty for the game. For example, that you can choose whether you want to match only uppercase letters or whether you compare between uppercase and lowercase letters. 
- I would like to allow a selection where you can set the time (e.g. 20/30/45/60 seconds).
- Add a highscore. 
- Adjust the background color of the lettercards according to the correct or wrong answer.

## Technologies Used

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript) 
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) was used to import fonts into the style.css.
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) was used to add icons.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/) was used to save and store the files for the website.
- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) was used to design the wireframes.
- [Coloors](https://coolors.co/image-picker) was used to create the color scheme.
- [iLoveIMG](https://www.iloveimg.com/) was used to cropp and resize the images.
- [Pixelied](https://pixelied.com/) was used to convert images from jpg to webp
- [imgtools](https://www.imgtools.co/) was used to resize webp images
- [CSS Gradient](https://cssgradient.io/) was used to create the gradient background of the instruction button
- [Am I Responsive](https://ui.dev/amiresponsive) was used to display the website on different devices.
- [beautifier](https://beautifier.io/) to beautify the code
- [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/de-de/) was used to search and load the background image

## Testing

1. **Validator Testing**

- **[HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)**

  - result for index.html<br>
    ![HTML results index with errors]()
   

I also checked all pages in the validator via text-input, and likewise no errors were detected in this way. All I got was an information to avoid trailing slashes in void elements.

- **[CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)**
   - result for styles.css <br>
     ![CSS result]()
     The warning is due to import of the Google fonts.

2. **Lighthouse Test** <br>
   To measure the website against performance, accessibility, SEO and best practice I used [Lighthouse](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk?hl=de).<br>
   
- result for index.html:<br>
  
  

3. **Manual testing** <br>
To ensure the pages are responsive, I used the Google Chrome developer tools.

| **Test** | **Test Description** | **Expected Outcome** | **Result**|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|


4. **Browser Compatibility**<br>
   The tests were conducted using the following browsers:

- 

5. **Bugs**

- 

## Deployment

This site is deployed using GitHub Pages. To deploy it from its GitHub repository to GitHub Pages, I took the following steps:
1. Log in (or sign up) to GitHub.
2. Navigate to the repository for this project by selecting [*queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard*](https://github.com/queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard)
3. Click the *Settings* tab above the repository 
4. In the left-hand menu, select *Pages*
5. In the section **"Build and deployment"** under *Source* select *Deploy from a branch* 
6. In the section **"Build and deployment"** under *Branch* select in the first area *main* and in the second *root*
7. Click the *Save* Button<br>
After refreshing the settings site for this repository above the **"Build and deployment"** section, you will see the GitHub Pages area with the link to the [view of the live site](https://queenisabaer.github.io/isbaner-vineyard/)

- Forking this GitHub repository
1.  Log in to GitHub.
2.  Navigate to the repository for this project by selecting [*queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard*](https://github.com/queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard)
3. Click at the top of the repository on the **Fork** button on the right side

- Clone this repository
1.  Log in to GitHub.
2.  Navigate to the repository for this project by selecting [*queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard*](https://github.com/queenisabaer/isbaner-vineyard)
3. In the top right corner, click on the green *Code* button
4. Copy the HTTPS URL in the tab *Local*
5. Go to the code editor of your choice and open the terminal
5. Type `git clone` and paste the URL you copied into your terminal
6. Press the enter key

## Credits

### Content

- The background image is from Magda Ehlers and was found on the [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/de-de/foto/kunst-muster-textur-abstrakt-4116706/) website.

### Code

- The instructions modal was created with the help of the tutorial by [Viktor Eke from freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-build-a-modal-with-javascript/)
- To center the instructions modal I used an explanation from [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8508275/how-to-center-a-position-absolute-element).
- To create the countdown I used the instruction by [James McDowell on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31106189/create-a-simple-10-second-countdown)
- I found a great explanation for setting the restart button in the [Treehouse Community](https://teamtreehouse.com/community/any-one-know-how-to-make-a-restart-button)
- How to add and remove a class after a certain time, was found at [ITSourceCode.com] (https://itsourcecode.com/javascript-tutorial/how-to-add-and-remove-class-after-5-seconds-in-javascript/).
- The functions to check whether the right or wrong letter is clicked have been inspired by [CodingNepal] (https://www.codingnepalweb.com/build-memory-card-game-html-javascript/) among others. 
- To understand more about the concepts of JavaScript I used the udemy course: [The complete 2023 Web Development Bootcamp by Dr. Angela Yu](https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-development-bootcamp/)
- The following websites were used as a source of knowledge: <br>
  - [Google](www.google.com)
  - [mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)
  - [W3C](https://www.w3.org/)
  - [W3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
  - [DevDocs](https://devdocs.io/)
  - [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
  - Slack Community

### Media

- Icons on the footer, the game and for links were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- The fonts were imported from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)

### ReadMe

- A big thank you to [Kera Cudmore](https://github.com/kera-cudmore) and all of her tips on what makes a good README.

### Acknowledgments

- I would like to thank my wonderful mentor Brian Macheria for his numerous tips and great assistance during the creation of this project.
- Furthermore I would like to thank Niclas Hugdahl who helped me on Slack to get the right twist for my name input function and setting the checkAnswer/correctAnswer function. 

**This is for educational use.**
